The next thing I wanna do is I wanna
talk about GitHub really quickly,
because this is the next
thing that we need to set up.
So in GitHub, this is your main
GitHub login page panel thing, right?
If you haven't already, which I wouldn't
be surprised if you already have,
the first thing you really do when you
get started on GitHub is you add an SSH
key, right?
You need to create an SSH key so that
you can start pushing code to GitHub and
things like that.
And so in this case, what we wanna
do after we set up Doppler is
we wanna make sure that we
can push code to GitHub.
And so what we're gonna do is we're
gonna go to our profile in GitHub,
go down to Settings.
Right, and then once you click on
Settings, go to SSH and GPG keys.
Now, notice I have a lot of SSH keys
cuz I use a lot of different systems.
But realistically,
what you wanna do is you wanna
create an SSH key for your computer.
I do have a document here that can help us
with this, and we can kinda go through it.
So if you wanna generate an SSH key,
whether on Mac, Windows, or
Linux, it's pretty straightforward.
You're just gonna use
the ssh-keygen command.
Does anyone here not have a key,
by the way?
You don't have a key?
Yeah, it's fine, no worries, no worries.
>> I use GitLab, so this is-
>> Okay, yeah, no worries, no worries.
That makes sense.
But you have ssh-keygen and
all that stuff?
Okay, cool, cool, cool, cool, cool.
Yeah, so in this case,
you'll want to generate your key first.
So one note about ed25519 versus RSA,
it's not fully supported yet everywhere.
Amazon, for example,
still uses RSA encryptions and ciphers.
So just be aware of that if you
wanna use this key anywhere
else that you might wanna actually
do the RSA because, as it says,
a legacy system that might
not support that key yet.
With GitHub and everything we're doing,
it's totally fine, so
it doesn't really matter.
So yeah, you're gonna want to
paste this command in, and
then you're going to want to run it.
And so you can see it generates your key.
It might ask you some questions,
like where to save the key file.
You can save it to the default location.
But at the end of the day,
you should be able to have that created.
And it might be in Users, like it says,
Users/YOU/.ssh and stuff like that.
Okay, we don't have to worry about
adding an SSH key to our agent cuz
we're not gonna do that.
I don't need the security key.
Okay, well, I guess it doesn't really
actually show you how to add it.
So, yeah, here it is,
Add a new SSH key, there we go.
So after you've created your SSH key,
the next thing
you wanna do is you wanna
copy the public file, right?
The public file, not the private file,
the .pub file is the key that actually
tells GitHub, hey, this is the key I want
to let access into my account, right?
This is something every
developer should have.
Every developer should have an SSH key.
They should be able to
manage this SSH key.
And it's their responsibility
to do all of that, essentially.
They dox their SSH key,
it's on them [LAUGH] but
it is something to just be aware of.
Keep it backed up, keep it safe.
I've definitely been in circumstances
where I've had SSH keys, and
then I've accidentally deleted them.
I've never been able to use them again.
I lost access to servers just because
I didn't keep a good copy of it.
So just make sure to keep it backed up and
safe.
Once you've got the pub file,
all you need to do is go back
to this page here and
then click New SSH key, give it a name,
myexamplekey, and
then paste in your actual key.
Once you do that, make sure the key
type is on Authentication, and
then click Add SSH key.
And then once you've done that, you
should now have an SSH key on GitHub and
ready for you to push.
The next thing we wanna do is we
actually wanna create a token for
GitHub as well, right?
We have SSH for cloning repositories and
things like that.
But Terraform actually uses the API,
right,
to create repositories and
all that kinda stuff.
And so in this scenario, what we actually
wanna do is we wanna create what's called
a fine-grained personal access token.
And the way that you do that is you click,
where is it?
It's on the left-hand side, scroll down,
Developer settings, there it is.
So if I click on Developer
settings > Personal access tokens,
you'll see that there's two options here,
Fine-grained tokens and Tokens (classic).
You might be used to these tokens here.
As a matter of fact,
you'll see I have one here.
However, I do recommend you using
fine-grained tokens going forward.
The reason for
that is because fine-grained tokens
are scoped to specific accounts versus
a personal token gives you access to every
account that you're connected to, right?
So that's another reason why
they went with this approach was
because you'll see here, I have fem-eci,
which is my little profile picture there.
But then I also have a terraform-github,
which is this one right here, right?
The TLDR is that we wanna
generate a new token.
So I'm gonna click on Generate new token.
You might have to pass a passkey.
Shoot, okay, hang on [LAUGH] security.
So once you get to the new fine-grained
personal access token section,
you can then give it a name.
So we'll give it a name.
In this case, what we're gonna call it
is we're gonna call it fem-eci, github.
Right, we're gonna give it
a expiration of 90 days.
Now, I recommend,
always give tokens expirations.
Mostly because when
people leave companies,
they didn't realize they made it.
[LAUGH] And
that's when you can get security exploits,
people getting into your systems,
all that kinda stuff.
So I know it sucks, I know it's annoying,
just let it fail, it's fine.
You'll know when the token
isn't there anymore.
And at that point, 90 days from now,
it's a problem to solve 90 days from now.
[LAUGH] That's probably the easiest way
to put it, it's a 90-day later problem.
But really, in my mind, I would rather
do this than be terrified that a key is
gonna get exploited or
something like that.
The next thing that we wanna do is we
wanna select the resource owner, right?
And so you'll see here,
I have three resource owners.
I have my personal one, Hippo, and
then the company that I own, ALT-F4-LLC.
For now, we're just gonna use
our personal accounts, right?
So we're just gonna click on personal.
There's one caveat to this
in what we're doing, okay?
And that is is that you can't
do teams with personal accounts.
So the one thing we will not have
teams in for this is GitHub, and
it's just a pure limitation,
unfortunately, of GitHub.
If we wanted to have teams,
I would have to pay for
every single one of your licenses here.
[LAUGH] So
we just couldn't do that with this.
So if it was a company, you would put
teams into your GitHub automation, and
then you'd create your teams through
that and give access and stuff.
Because we're not doing that,
we're just gonna do it all
on our own personal account.
The next thing we're gonna do is we're
gonna click All repositories from
the list, just because we wanna
give access to everything for now.
And then we're gonna go to
Repository permissions.
So I would not recommend going here and
just allow, allow, allow, allow, allow,
allow, allow, allow, allow.
That probably isn't a good idea.
However, there are a couple of
things that we really do need.
And the first and most important one
is really just administration, right?
We wanna be able to let Terraform create
repos, manage repos, all that kinda stuff.
And you will notice that repository
creation and deletion is in here.
So this is a caveat to the new tokens.
And I actually didn't even
realize that until just now.
So if you wanna make sure
that you do not delete,
you might wanna use the old personal
tokens because that's a specific scope.
Okay, so that's really the only
permission we need in a repository.
Everything else is just other things
that we're not really gonna deal with
right now.
The next thing we wanna do is we
wanna go to Account permissions.
Wait, no, I'm sorry, we don't need account
permissions cuz this isn't a organization.
So yeah, it's literally just that one
because we just wanna make sure that
Terraform can manage all of our
repositories and everything for us.
Now, I'm not actually going to click
Generate token because it will then show
my token on screen for you guys.
But if you click that, you will then be
able to go to, actually, you know what,
screw it, let's just do it.
There you go, so there's my token.
And so you can see here,
this is it, and now it's gone.
But that token is then what you want.
Now, what you're gonna do is that
you're gonna copy that token and
you're gonna go to Doppler, right?
Because then what we wanna do
is we wanna go to Doppler and
we wanna create a new environment
variable called GITHUB_TOKEN.
>> Where is that?
>> So this would be in your
project in Doppler, I added this.
I'm sorry,
let me go to a fresh one, sorry.
So if I go back to my example-project,
right, dev,
you'll see that we have nothing, right?
So if I click Add First Secret,
then I get the ability to add a new name,
as well as a value.
And so in this case, we do GITHUB_TOKEN,
and then we paste in our token.
So yeah, so if you go to Save,
here I'll just do 1234567, sure.
So if you go to Save, you might notice
that Doppler goes, hey, hey, whoa,
hold up, hold up, hold up, this secret
isn't in any other environments.
Do you want that, right?
And what it can say is,
well, it can say, hey,
if you want me to update all your
environments with this secret
simultaneously, I can do that for
you, right?
And so if I click on Production and
I hit Save, and
then I go back and I go to prod,
you'll see my secret's now there.
So it's a nice way if you have
secrets that do cross multiple ems or
things like that to kinda update it.
I don't really use it that often,
to be honest.
So use it when you need it, I guess.
But realistically, you'll just save for
the environment that you're working in,
yeah.
>> So you'd ideally change,
if you could do initial one in dev, and
then go into prod and stay and change the-
>> Exactly, yeah,
and that's what you would for
multiple environments.
Yeah, you'd go into prod, and
then you'd say, this is 456789, right?
And then you'd save that.
And if it says the same thing, you just
don't check the other environment, right?
Now, the reason for that is because
there's another feature that Doppler has
that I haven't gone over, and I'm probably
not going to cuz it's a little confusing.
But they also give you the ability to
create configurations for branches, right?
So say you're in dev, but you're testing
a specific branch in dev, right?
So what I can do is I can create a branch
config off of dev called example, right?
And then I can tell my
environment to use this config.
So I can use the already existing ones,
but
then I can override specific ones that
I want for what I'm working with.
Yeah, it's really nice.
And again, if you go in here and then
you say, the next thing we need to add,
which I would recommend doing,
is we need to add our GitHub owner, right?
This is what we actually wanna tell our
automation who owns these repositories.
And so in this case, you're just gonna
put in your GitHub username, right?
And so now if I hit Save and I hit
Development, you'll notice that it says,
will smartly update the secrets
in all branched configs.
So because this is dev and I'm updating
the root of dev, it can say, well,
hey, I'm gonna update everything
else that's under dev for
you because you're
touching the root config.
So now if I hit Save and then I go back
to here, you'll see that not only do I
have GITHUB_TOKEN, but
I also have GITHUB_OWNER, right?
So this is how branches are how you kinda
branch off of an environment to make
changes, and configs are how you create
whole different environments, basically.